Accounting 
(Business Department) 
ACC 101—Accounting Principles 1 
4 cr. (Fall/Spring) 
This is an introduction to accounting practice and theory using the model of the sole proprietorship in a service business. The accounting process for recording, summarizing, and reporting financial data is analyzed. Specialized systems in cash controls, payroll, and the use of multipurpose combination journals are examined. Emphasis is placed on identifying and correcting errors and omissions and understanding their impact on financial statements. Course objectives are reinforced through the use of manual and/or computerized practice sets. 
Prerequisite: MAT 020 or placement into MAT 101 or higher 

ACC 102—Accounting Principles 2 
4 cr. (Fall/Spring) 
This is a continuation of accounting practice using the model of the sole proprietorship in a merchandising business. Use of special purpose journals and related subsidiary ledgers in support of merchandising operations and an analysis of payables, receivables, and inventory valuation unique to this area are examined. Additional content in the areas of note financing, long­term assets and payroll are included. The topic of corporations and the specific equity issues related to them are discussed. Course objectives are reinforced through the use of manual and/or computerized practice sets. 
Prerequisite: ACC 101 

ACC 111—Personal Finance 
3 cr. (Spring­Day/Fall­Evening) 
The course examines important aspects of consumer decision making. Emphasis is on practical consumer finance areas such as: personal financial planning, budgeting, consumer protection, purchasing, taxes, credit and investments. The course provides the skills to develop a life­long financial plan for the individual. 
Prerequisite: MAT 020 or placement into MAT 101 or higher 

ACC 153—Financial Accounting 4 cr. 
This course provides a solid foundation in basic accounting concepts and methodology of financial accounting. This includes the rules and procedures used by financial accountants in preparing external financial reports. Emphasis is placed on the chart of accounts, the accounting environment, the accounting cycle, cash flow, the income statement and the balance sheet. This course provides students with an understanding of financial accounting in a corporate environment, methods used to perform analysis of financial statements, and insights into the financial accounting decision making process. 
Prerequisite: MAT 020 or placement into MAT 101 or higher 

ACC 154—Managerial Accounting 
4 cr. (Fall/Spring) 
This course introduces students to managerial accounting as an information system that provides managers with a basis for decision making. Topics include basic C­V­P analysis, estimating costs, job and process costing, break­even analysis, standard costing, short and long term decision making, responsibility accounting, operating budgets, and flexible budgeting. Emphasis is placed on the needs of managers to use internal accounting information to make business decisions. 

